The following steps outline how to set up the server  
**3.2.1 Prerequisites:**  
To setup the project, the following prerequisites need to be installed:  
- Python 3.13.x installed from https://www.python.org/downloads/  
- NodeJS 24.x.x installed from https://nodejs.org/en/download  
- Git installed from https://git-scm.com/install/  

**3.2.2 Cloning the Repository:**  
With Git installed, open a new terminal in the directory you want the system to be cloned into, and run:  
`git clone https://github.com/COMP2281/software-engineering-group25-26-32`  

**3.2.3 Environment Setup:**  
Inside the cloned repository folder there are two folders, nodejs and python.  
Open a new terminal in the nodejs folder and run:  
`npm install`  
This will install all required dependencies for the NodeJS server that will serve the frontend.  

Open a new terminal in the `python` folder. In this terminal, run:  
`python -m venv .venv`  
This will create a new Python virtual environment. This can be activated as follows:  
On Windows, run:  
`./.venv/Scripts/activate`  
On Mac/Linux, run:  
`source .venv/bin/activate`  
Install the required Python modules into the environment by running:  
`pip install -r requirements.txt`  

For OCR functions to work, the Tesseract language data files need to be installed on your machine. To do this, open a terminal in the directory you would like the data to be installed and run:  
`git clone https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata`

For AI Summarisation features to work, a Gemini API key is required. An API key can be created from https://aistudio.google.com/api-keys.   
Note: A Free Tier key should be sufficient for testing and development, but in production a paid API key will be required due to rate limits imposed by the free tier. Some larger theses (400+ pages) will be unable to be summarised under the Free Tier.  

Create a `.env` file in the python directory and enter the following lines into this file:  
```
TESSDATA_PREFIX = <...>/tessdata  
DB_PATH = <...>/db.db  
GEMINI_API_KEY = <your_gemini_api_key>  
SECRET_KEY = <KEYHERE>
```
Where:
- `<...>/tessdata` is the full path on your filesystem to the tessdata folder obtained by cloning the tessdata repository
- `<...>/db.db` is the full path to the python/db folder on your file system, with db.db appended (as this is the filename of the database that the system will use)
- `<your_gemini_api_key>` is your Gemini API key  
- `<KEYHERE>` is a randomly generated secret key (recommended 32 characters) used to hash the authentication tokens.  

If deploying to the Internet, also add the following lines:
```
FRONTEND_DOMAIN = frontend.example.com  
API_DOMAIN = api.example.com
```
Replacing the example domains with your actual domains.

**3.2.4 Downloading our pre-built database and model weights:**  
Optional, but highly recommended  
- db.db: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sjuEiNPtU-YBk_LmJwXtF8F1EqwcZjej/view?usp=drive_link  
- durham_thesis.index: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Pn-vnS8AWQ9hzGylMXmiDrRP4DHnot6Z/view?usp=drive_link  
- durham_thesis_ids.npy: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1XV7-h2fERKrC3PrZMkLmFVqu67z7T2Wd/view?usp=drive_link  

Place db.db into the `python/db` directory and the other two files into the `python` directory. Ensure file names match exactly as they are listed above.  

**3.2.5 Starting the server**:  
On Windows, run the `start.bat` batch script in the root project directory.  
On Mac/Linux, run the `start.sh` shell script, also in the root project directory.  
If running the server locally, the frontend will be running at `localhost:8080` and the API at `localhost:8000`.  
3.2
This system is deployed locally by running both frontend and backend at the same time so the browser Ui can communicate with the search engine.This backend depeneds on python files modulkes being active as it facilitates functions such as semantic retrievaland thesis processing. Simultaneously the frontend handles displaying the web application pageand handling user interaction.The system has stratup scripts that would work on Linux and Windows so deployment can be locally tested and executed.

The semanctic retrieval system does not rely on Traditional databases which is beneficial as it makes deploymwnt much simpler.This is because the indexed thesis records are stored through the thesis dataset,the FAISS vector index, and the NumPy ID mapping file. The main search engine to functions requires only files that are generated by the model and standardised. The wider backend still includes configuration files for login handling and user management, so these must also remain correctly placed when deploying the full application.

To deploy the system locally,all dependencies are to be installed and the data has to be indexed and prepared so that the backend has a usable semantic index for the frontend to work off. The startup script can then be executed, which launches backend and frontend together. On Linux systems this is done using ./start.sh, while Windows uses start.bat. Deployment is complete when the browser opens correctly, backend services respond without errors, and search requests can reach the FAISS search engine successfully.
