**3.3.1 \- First-time setup (server)**  
When first setting up the server, create an Admin user account using the command line. To do this, `cd` into the `python` directory and run:  
`python create_admin.py <username> <password>`  
where `<username>` and `<password>` are the credentials for the admin account. The admin page can then be accessed using these credentials.

If you are not using our pre-built database and model weights, see Section 4.1 for information about uploading a custom thesis database and building the model weights for this database.

**3.3.2 \- User roles**  
Regular users do not need to log in to use the system, and have access to all searching and AI summarisation features.  
Admin users need to be created as outlined above (or from the Admin Page \- see Section 4.1), and have full access to upload and update the database, rebuild the model index (weights) and create and delete admin accounts in addition to regular functionality.

3.3
Launching the system after deployments requires both end services and the API to be active. Browser interface can be accessed locally with localhost:8080.

Regular users can access search function without a login and all its features such as immediate thesis best matches,summarisation,year search etc. 

Administrative user who wish to update the thesis datasets or manage model weights can access separate accounts .An account can be created in python using python create_admin.py <username> <password>
Once this account exists, the admin page can be accessed through:
localhost:8080/admin


The backend can then authenticates the login to allow access.
