**4.2.1 \- Integration with EThOS**  
Since EThOS is currently offline we have had to build our system around Durham E-Theses \- an alternative, smaller-scale thesis repository suggested by the client. As a result of this, some aspects of our system will need modifying to work with EThOS and some new functionality will need to be added. The modifications needed for this are outlined below:

Required modifications:

- The current method for updating the thesis database includes directly scraping the latest thesis additions from Durham E-Theses. This functionality would either have to be replaced with an equivalent function that works with EThOS, or be completely removed. The manual database upload method would not need to be changed.  
- A database containing the information from EThOS will have to be constructed to the same schema as the database used by our system (as outlined in Section 2.2). Furthermore, due to the scale of the EThOS dataset, the database system itself may need to be upgraded from SQLite to PostgreSQL in order to maintain current levels of performance for this increase in scale.  
- Durham E-Theses only contains English texts, but EThOS (being a British repository) also contains theses written in Welsh and Gaelic, which our semantic model is not able to correctly interpret. To rectify this, Python libraries such as `deep-translator` will need to be used to translate thesis titles and abstracts into English before generating the model embeddings, while not touching the stored data in the database. This ensures that the original theses are able to be accessed directly by researchers, while enabling the search tool to handle theses from non-English backgrounds (i.e. Welsh, Scottish)  
- An improved OCR algorithm for processing handwritten theses will be required so that handwritten theses are read correctly with a greater reliability. In Durham E-Theses, the majority of theses are either digital or written on a typewriter, so basic OCR was able to read them correctly, however since EThOS dates back to 1700, a better algorithm, likely requiring deep learning techniques, will need to be implemented.  
- A new filter should be added to allow users to filter theses from a specific institution (BR7.1). This was not added to the current system since Durham ETheses only covers a single institution. This will also require an addition of an `institution` column to the database schema.  
- Improvements can be made to the embeddings model (e.g. by using some or all of the thesis text content to generate the embeddings) in order to improve search performance with a larger database with many missing values for abstracts.

**4.2.2 \- Additional Functionality**  
Some of the “Could/Should Have” features discussed in the requirements documentation did not make it into our final system. A brief overview of how these features could be implemented is outlined below:

- A topic map (BR8.x) for the EThOS dataset (or a subset of the dataset) can be created by using clustering methods (e.g. K-Means or Agglomerative Clustering) to form groups of theses within the dataset based on the similarity of their embeddings in the sentence transformer model. Large language models or deep learning techniques would be required to attach meaning to these clusters and explore how they relate to each other.   
- Allowing users to use AI to compare theses and extract information across multiple theses (BR5.1 and BR5.3) would be made possible by paying for Gemini API Tier 1 (or higher), which provides an increased context limit (1M tokens per prompt), which should allow for four or five theses to be considered for a single AI summary. This would also necessitate changes to the frontend to enable users to select which theses they want summarised, as well as changes to the prompt sent to Gemini to ensure it understands that it is being sent data from multiple theses, and that it must cite which thesis it used to generate each piece of information in the summary.